From May 18th to 19th, the China China Asia Summit will be held in Xi'an, Shaanxi. At present, practical cooperation in various fields between China and Central Asian countries continues to deepen, and Central Asia has become a model area for high-quality joint construction of the "the Belt and Road".



Xi'an, Shaanxi: Two New Central Asian Routes "Air Silk Road" Continuously Weaving



Yesterday, the international route from Xi'an, Shaanxi to Ashgabat, the capital of Turkmenistan, made its first flight. On May 18th, Xi'an will also open its first international route to Dushanbe, the capital of Tajikistan, making it the only city in the country to take the lead in connecting all five Central Asian countries. Since the beginning of this year, Xi'an has successively opened passenger routes to Tashkent, the capital of Uzbekistan, Bishkek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan, Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan, and other places, and the "Air Silk Road" has been continuously woven.



Xinjiang: The number of China Europe trains operating in the first four months of this year reached a new high



In terms of railways, the number of China Europe (Central Asia) trains operating in Xinjiang reached a historic high in the first four months of this year. Among them, 2129 trains from Alashankou Railway Port entered and exited China Europe (Central Asia), a year-on-year increase of 12.82%; Khorgos Railway Port has 2485 inbound and outbound China Europe (Central Asia) trains, up 14.8% year on year, and the role of Asia Europe golden channel is increasingly prominent.



Liu Junping, Deputy Director of Operation Workshop of Alashankou railway station of Urumqi Railway Bureau of China, said: We have used the interconnection of information system and customs data, thus realizing the seamless connection from customs declaration review to vehicle exit, and shortening the stay time of China Europe trains at our port stations.



China Kazakhstan Logistics Cooperation Goes Out of the Cross border Land Sea Intermodal Transport "New Silk Road"



In Lianyungang, Jiangsu, goods from Central Asian countries are connected to the sea port that sets sail from the Pacific Ocean. In recent days, a China Europe train carrying approximately 2200 tons of Uzbekistan potassium fertilizer has arrived at the logistics cooperation base of China Kazakhstan (Lianyungang). Through the customs supervision mode of "zero waiting", "zero pollution", and "zero cargo damage", this batch of goods will be shipped to Southeast Asia on the Lianyungang sea liner as soon as possible. Nowadays, it has become a norm for fertilizers from Uzbekistan and other countries to be sent to Japan, South Korea, and Southeast Asia through Lianyungang. More than 80% of daily consumer goods imported by Kazakhstan through China, as well as advantageous trade commodities such as mineral products and grains exported, are also distributed and distributed through the Lianyungang port.



Azi, Deputy General Manager of Lianyungang China Kazakhstan International Logistics Co., Ltd.: Since the establishment of the China Kazakhstan (Lianyungang) logistics cooperation base, it has become more convenient for Kazakhstan to export its own agricultural and mineral products. At the same time, products from Southeast Asia and other countries can also enter Kazakhstan more quickly.



As the first physical platform project of the "the Belt and Road" international economic and trade cooperation, China Kazakhstan Lianyungang Logistics Project has been operating for nearly 10 years, and has achieved full coverage of major stations in Central Asia. The types of transit goods have expanded from initial automotive parts and electronic components to various fields such as building materials, home furnishings, electromechanical, grain, minerals, chemical materials, etc. The transit time of international containers in Lianyungang has also been shortened from more than 4 days to less than 1 day.